So I went through kafka topic , majorily I know things abt kafka based on HI 



1. Kafka is basically  a queue system can be used as queue or stream both (if u do not ack the message)

2. Kafka has a broker cluster which has multiple brokers

3. Data to kafka are produced by producers and consumed by consumers 

4. data is logically segreegated by topic , 

5. and topic is phsyically segregated by partition , 

6. we have a concept called consumer group ,where group of consumers can consume  from parition of the topic

7. Each partition is only consumed by one consuemr in the consumer group

8. kafka has leader follower prinicpal for parition . where partition asycnhonornously get the replicated data to enhance durability

9. Kafka controller in the cluster manages metadata of topic to partition map and which partition is connected to which consumer in consuemr group , along with commited offsets of each partition 



Scalability 

1. Kafka can scale by adding more partitions whcih will increase parallelism by adding more consumers

2. also we can always increase no of broekrs in the cluster to add more space and hacne more pratiion , enabling more consumers and more parlalllismg

3. Choosing the right key is very improtatnt for efficient distribution of keys





Hot keys



1. ways to handle hot keys , -> is use compunded key or have some attributes like timestamp associated with key  or let kfka handle the distribution, automatically

2. have back pressure to slow down the producer itself 





Durability 

1. its provided by replication common replicatio = 3 , from producer can use sync = all , for maximum durability etc



Retries 

1. can retry producer through exp back off retries fro transient failures

2. can retry consuemr through delayed queueu backed by DLQ

3. Retention policies - default 7 days can increase . 
    Kafka writes message to SSD  but first message is writtent to RAM and then flushed to disk for added durability


Coordinator

1. Kafka  Cordinaor , - leader election , checks for broker health  
2. Group Controller - a broekr which manages , the partition assignement to consumers in consumer group , offset commit